overhead squat assessment: {hip_girdle}, {knees}, {feet}
step 1: have individual stand with feet shoulder width apart. holding a dowel in their hands, have the individual
spread out their grip wide enough that the dowel is approximately waist height while keeping their arms straight. have the 
individual raise the dowel overhead so that the dowel is just behind the head. 
step 2: from this position have the individual squat as deep as they can slowly. this can be repeated to ensure accuracy of screen 
and to adjust screen for the individual.
adjustments: if the clients angle of the spine and angle of the shin do not match, the knees buckle in the clients thight does not 
reach a depth parallel to the ground. elevate the heels 1 to 2 inches and have them repeat the movement.
scoring: 
system is: ideal = 3, functioning = 2, impaired = 1
score of 3: shin and spine angle match, heels are on the ground, thigh is parallel to the ground, and dowel stays in start 
position overhead.
score of 2: shin and spine angle match, heels are elevated, thigh is parallel to the ground, and dowel stays in start 
position overhead.
score of 1: heels are on the elevated and at least one of the following: shin and spine angle do not match, thigh is not parallel
to the ground, and dowel does not stay in start position overhead.
if score is 3: highest score possible no need for further assessment.
if score is 2: this is within healthy tolerances and may be representative of the individuals phisiology, can follow up with
assessing hip girdle and foot mobility screens but not necessary.
if score is 1: follow up question: is this due to impairment of one or more of the following: hip girdle,
knees, or feet?

trunk stability pushup: {shoulder_girdle}, {elbows}, {hands}
step 1: have the client lay prone on the ground. have them place their hands directly under their shoulders. for men have them 
slide their hands up until their thumbs are inline with their eyebrows. for women have them slide their hands up until their 
thumbs are inline with their chin.
step 2: have the client dig their toes into the ground, pick their knees up off the ground tighten the abdominal wall.
step 3: press up from the floor.
system is: ideal = 3, functioning = 2, impaired = 1
score of 3: hands at appropriate level, straight body line as the client psuhes up and comes down.
score of 2: hands below appropriate level, straight body line as the client psuhes up and comes down.
score of 1: hands below appropriate level, loss of straight body line as the client psuhes up and comes down either at the 
shoulder girdle or spine position.

bird dog assessment: {spine}
step 1: have the client in a bear crawl position on the floor. they must have their toes dug into the floor, knees unerneath hips, 
and hands underneath shoulders.
step 2: while maintaining a straight back have the client extend an arm and its same side leg until they are inline with the spine,
then have the client attempt to touch elbow to knee underneath the torso, and then return to the start position.
step 3: repeat on the other side.
system is: ideal = 3, functioning = 2, impaired = 1
score of 3: completed as perscribed.
score of 2: completed while using opposite limbs instead of same side.
score of 1: unable to complete assessment.

Body oxygen level test:
step 1: have the client sit upright in a comfortable position and find a natural cadence for breathing in and out through the nose.
step 2: after a natural exhale have the client pinch their nose shut. the coach starts a stop watch.
step 3: when the client feels a moderate to strong urge to breath they will unblock their nose, the time will be recorded, and return
to the normal cadence of breathing. 
cases for reassessment: if the client immediately returns to their natural cadence of brearthing they did not hold their breath long 
enough. or if the the client takes more than 3 to 4 deep breaths to return to their natural breathing cadence.
system is 40+ seconds = highly conditioned, 30-39 seconds = conditioned, 20-39 seconds = healthy, 10-19 seconds = sub-optimal,
<10 seconds impaired breathing.
catagorization of protocols based off times recorded:
<10 seconds: seated breath work and walking practice, zone 1 and zone 2 cardio.
10-19 seconds: all previous protocols. include zone 3 cardio.
>20 seconds: all previous protocols. include zone 4 and zone 5 cardio.