Topic: sets and repitition templates for a goal of becomming or maintaining health.
synopsys: sets and repetitions vary based on experience level of the individual, how long it's been since they last exercised, goals,
 age and so on.
Cases:
1) beginner or maintenance of healthy: 2 sets of 8-12 repitiions per exercise, as the an initial weight is selected the rep range is
 increased across time based on how the individual feels with each subsequent workout. once the weight can be done for 12 repetitions
 the weight is increased and the repititions start back at 8. this cycle can be repeated indefinately. there should be at least a full
 24 hour rest before exercising the same muscle system again. the load range should be between 65% to 75% of the individuals one repetition
 maximum.
2) new movement being learned: 3 sets of 5 repetitions per exercise with light to moderate weight. this allows the body to acclimate to
 the new movement. there should be at least a full 24 hour rest before exercising the same muscle system again. the load range should be
between 65% to 75% of the individuals one repetition maximum. 
3) building general strength and endurance: 3 to 5 sets of 10 to 15 repetitions per exercise. this will develop a balance of strength and
 endurance of the skeletal muscle system. there should be between a 24 hour and 48 hour rest before exercising the same muscle system again
  the load range should be between 75% to 85% of the individuals one repetition maximum.
4) building muscle endurance: 2 sets of 20 repetitions per exercise. this will stimulate the development of muscle endurance. the load
 range should be between 65% to 75% of the individuals one repetition maximum. there should be at least a between a 24 hour and 48 rest 
before exercising the same muscle system again. 
5) building muscle strength: 3 to 5 sets of 3 to 6 repetitions per exercise. will stimulate the development of muscle strength. the load 
range should be between 85% to 95% of the individulas one repetition maximum. there should be between a  48 hour and 96 hour rest before
 exercising the same muscle system again.
